# Human-Activity-Recognition
Human activity recognition, or HAR, has been a significant goal of computer vision as well as it is a challenging time series classification task. It involves predicting the movement of a person based on sensor data and traditionally involves deep domain expertise and methods from signal processing to correctly engineer features from the raw data in order to fit a machine learning model. Recently, deep learning methods such as convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks have shown capable and even achieve state-of-the-art results by automatically learning features from the raw sensor data. This paper propose a Multi-Head ConvLSTM to build a deep neural architecture for better accuracy of HAR ,where each head of the model reads the input time steps using a different sized kernel. A three-headed model may have three different kernel sizes allowing the model to read and interpret the sequence data at three different resolutions. The interpretations from all three heads are then concatenated within the model and interpreted by a two fully-connected layer before a prediction is made.
# Dataset 
Link: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/human+activity+recognition+using+smartphones
The dataset was collected from 30 subjects aged between 19 and 48 years old performing one of 6 standard activities while wearing a waist-mounted smartphone that recorded the movement data. Video was recorded of each subject performing the activities and the movement data was labeled manually from these videos. The six selected ADL were standing, sitting, laying down, walking, walking downstairs and upstairs. Each subject performed the protocol twice: on the first trial the smartphone was fixed on the left side of the belt and on the second it was placed by the user himself as preferred.There are three main signal types in the raw data: total acceleration, body acceleration, and body gyroscope. Each has three axes of data. This means that there are a total of nine variables for each time step. Further, each series of data has been partitioned into overlapping windows of 2.65 seconds of data, or 128 time steps. This means that one row of data has 128 × 9 or 1,152 elements. The split portions of the data for modelling 70% for training and 30% for testing.

# Network Training
The ConvLSTM model will read subsequences of the main sequence in as blocks, extract features from each block, then allow the LSTM to interpret the features extracted from each block. One approach to implementing this model is to split each window of 128 time steps into subsequences for the CNN model to process. For example, the 128 time steps in each window can be split into four subsequences of 32 time steps. The ConvLSTM2D class, input where the number of time steps is the number of subsequences in the window, the number of rows is 1 as we are working with one-dimensional data, and the number of columns represents the number of time steps in the subsequence, in this case 32.
